Plasma Youth Sports Games
with Unsuccess of the champion,
would like to thank Slaven Bilić
for stepping in as the host.
Bilić is one of the first sponsors,
ambassador and is our biggest promoter.
He used his life and sports experience
in order to prepare high-quality content
with his guests for all generations.
Thanks, Nane!
Have you ever thought
about giving up?
Have you ever cried? Are you emotional?
Personally, I think you are.
It is hard to achieve all of this alone.
-Everyone thinks that I am...
When people see Ibra, they think
he is strong, big, a man of steel.
However, if you got to know me better,
you would say that I have a big heart.
That's not just my opinion.
I am very sensitive.
Those who find themselves inside
my world know this. -Yes.
I am ready to do everything
to protect you.
Words mean much more to me
than anything else. That's just how I am.
However, it takes a lot of time
for me to accept someone.
In the past, some bad situations
happened to me,
and that's why I find it very hard
to let people be part of my world.
Many people asked things of me
and I... -You put up a barrier.
Today that barrier exists,
and it didn't before.
For all those mistakes I made,
I paid the price...
Otherwise, I am a very sensitive.
People only notice that
when I accept them as friends.
But toward everyone else,
I behave differently.
And you know very well
what the football world is like,
because you were a player,
and today you are a coach.
Football is a dirty world.
-That's right.
I don't know how to describe it better.
-Yes, it's a dirty world.
It is an aggressive and dirty world.
Because it is the biggest sport
in the world, and because
enormous amounts of money
circulate within it.
Everyone has their own interests
that they want to achieve.
So everything is for sale.
I was one of those players
who agreed to transfers.
I signed contracts, I played in Spain,
France, England, Italy, and in the USA.
In the USA, I spent less time as a player
because the situation is different there.
My late agent was wow.
I've seen everything.
I know how things work.
"You eat, or you get eaten."
That world is like that.
That's why I said earlier,
when you asked me...
I didn't have anyone to help me.
I only had my self-confidence.
Some people told me
that it's important to be arrogant,
but I had self-confidence.
I learned to believe in myself.
-Yes, believe in yourself.
I believed in myself so strongly
that no one could stop me.
Or block me. That's why I never
thought about quitting football.
That's why, for such a long time...
The more people didn't believe in me,
the more motivation I had.
It's about motivation.
-But that happened to me suddenly.
They did not immediately
predict a bright career for me.
His fate is already written.
It wasn't obvious at first.
I had that self-confidence.
I set myself the goal that I want
to be the best player in the world.
In high school, one of my
subjects was the Italian language.
One day the teacher told me...
because I was not a good student.
In class I was always talking
and didn't behave properly.
I disturbed other students.
-You were mischievous.
And then one day the teacher said to me:
"You will never amount to anything."
That happened in Italian class.
I told her the following: "I will be
a professional footballer in Italy.
And I will learn Italian so well
that I will come back here
to Sweden and teach you."
-Really? -I did.
After that, I never went
back to that school again.
I was thinking only about the fact
that I didn't want anyone
to hold me back. I was ready to give
200% to succeed. -To prove it.
When I was 17, in Malmö a player
came on trial from Trinidad and Tobago.
He started training with us.
At that time, I was playing for both
the first and the second team.
In one of the matches
I played for the second team...
After seven days of his arrival,
he said this to me:
"If you don't succeed,
it's your own fault."
I started thinking about that.
He also told me that
if I didn't want to succeed,
it would be only my fault.
At that time, I was only 17 years old
and I wondered why he told me that.
I didn't ask for his opinion or what
he wanted to achieve by saying it.
While I was walking home,
I kept thinking about why he said it.
He doesn't even know who I am.
He has no interest in me,
he just came on trial.
I thought there were only two things,
either he wanted to play in my position,
he simply wanted to help me.
Or he was giving me a signal
for something else.
In the end, I realized that everything
in life depends only on me.
If I fail to become the best player,
it will be only my fault. Not others.
But that's also a big responsibility.
Suddenly, I understood
that he was giving me a signal.
This is good, but that's a lot of
pressure, as a kid.
It's easy for you to talk about that
now when you're 44 years old.
But when you're 17,
that's a lot. -You're right.
The good thing is that you got
a chance in Malmö.
It's a big club...
-It's the best thing that happened.
You got the chance to play,
fame and you go to Ajax. -Yes.
You were very young at the time.
-I was young.
At the age of 20, you move to Ajax,
where Koeman was the coach.
No, Co Adriaanse. He was the first.
-You're right.
Later, Koeman became your coach.
-Van Gaal was the director.
Van Basten also helped out,
-That's right. -Was that a big step up?
Ajax is an outstanding club
for development,
but were you actually ready for it?
-No, I wasn't.
What I had in Malmö
was my environment, my home.
I knew how to deal with
whatever came up.
If a problem arose,
I knew exactly where to solve it,
and if not there,
I knew where to go next.
Everything was within five minutes,
my mother, my father, and the life I knew.
You were in your comfort zone.
-Yes. I lived alone for six months.
You could say I lived within
a kind of triangle.
In Malmö, I had people around me,
friends, I knew the city, every street…
You had your own structure.
-Exactly. Then I moved to a new club
that bought me for a record fee.
The pressure was enormous right
from the start. -Through the roof.
Stress, pressure, expectations,
results... It was a new world for me.
I wasn't given enough time,
there was no patience. -Patience...
They wanted results immediately.
When I arrived there, I didn't have
any money for the first month
because salaries were paid
at the end of the month.
I had a house, I bought a television,
a couch, and a bed and that was it.
I stayed in Malmö for another six
months after Ajax had bought me,
because the Swedish season runs
differently from the rest of Europe.
I had those six months to prepare,
but I lacked experience.
I bought a bed and a bigger television
than the one I had before
because I like watching on a big screen.
That couch and that TV...
When I arrived there,
the fridge was empty,
and I didn't have money to buy food.
I spoke to Maxwell, the Brazilian player,
and told him I had nothing left.
I went to the club and asked if I could
get my salary earlier... -An advance?
...ahead of time,
so I could live normally.
They told me it wasn't possible,
that it didn't work that way,
and that salaries were paid
at the end of the month.
I went back to Maxwell
and told him I had to live with him
because I had nothing. He had already
sorted himself out, he arrived prepared,
he was more mature than I was.
I slept on an IKEA mattress
on the floor at his place.
I stayed with him for three weeks,
sleeping there, eating there,
and going to training together.
And he had arrived at the club
at the same time as I did.
That's how it all began.
We went to a tournament in Amsterdam.
Ajax, Milan, Arsenal and a few
other clubs were taking part.
During the match against Milan,
I was overflowing with adrenaline.
I was playing for Ajax, in front of
45,000 people, against Milan players
I had previously only played
with on the PlayStation.
I wasn't in Malmö anymore.
I was full of adrenaline,
but I arrived with confidence.
It wasn't that I lacked respect
for others, but I genuinely felt
I was better than them.
That was my mindset.
I played that match,
the crowd went crazy,
they couldn't believe
what they were seeing.
They weren't used to watching
a player who was 1.90 meters tall
playing football that way.
In the match against Arsenal,
I was making moves,
or actually, I think it was Manchester Utd,
when Laurent Blanc was there,
I made another significant move
and scored a goal.
Everything looked perfect. Everyone
was saying I was the new Van Basten.
And then everything
started to go downhill.
People expected me, like Van Basten,
to score in every single match.
That you would always play like that...
However, what I learned back
then applies to all players.
When you arrive at a new club,
your adrenaline level is exceptionally high.
You only truly understand
what kind of player you are
once that adrenaline wears off.
-When you return to a normal level...
Only then do you really see where
you stand, what you are missing,
and what you need to work on. At
the beginning everything feels incredible,
and adrenaline pushes you as if you're
moving at 200 kilometers per hour.
When the adrenaline fades,
that's when you start to understand
where you truly are and
what the real situation is.
When my adrenaline dropped, I was
no longer playing as well as before.
The coach, Co Adriaanse,
didn't want to talk to me.
That's strange. -Leo Beenhakker
was there as well, and he was good...
He was at Real Madrid, right?
-Yes, he was excellent.
He spoke to me more than my own coach
did. I asked him what I was doing wrong,
what I needed to change,
what I was doing well,
and what I wasn't doing well.
Co Adriaanse was like a soldier.
He didn't talk much,
he didn't point out mistakes.
He ran training sessions
in an 11-versus-11 format,
and if someone stood still,
they were punished with ten push-ups.
You had to be moving all the time.
It reminded me of my time in Malmö,
when I was treated differently as well.
I was constantly being punished.
If I got tired and stopped for a moment,
ten push-ups followed and it was
always me who got punished.
It felt as if he was against me.
For a while, I didn't play at all,
others played instead.
It was challenging for me.
After three months, I called Malmö
and begged them to buy me back
because I wanted to return. They told
me they no longer had the money...
That was just an excuse. They had their
own reasons for not wanting me back.
I kept fighting at Ajax.
There was another Greek striker,
Machlas. -Right.
It was either him or me
for the number nine position.
Ajax had a system, either the number nine
or the number eleven, the seven,
the six, the two, the three,
the five, the eight, the ten,
and the number nine playing behind.
At Ajax we learned
that you are not a central striker,
you are not in... How do you say...
In the middle. There are numbers.
They taught you numbers. -...numbers.
Yes, nine. You are
number nine. You seven.
You are eleven. Number ten.
That is the "Fankal" school.
They taught you numbers and
they don't move from that.
Number nine, you are right,
defence, right.
Left, six, three, five, eight.
That's how they work.
That's what I learned there.
I wasn't playing, I started...
-Warming up. -I was warming up.
The crowd started chanting
Machlas's name. Already then.
Mentally, everyone is against me.
I don't speak the language,
I have a coach who doesn't talk
to me. It kept going like that.
After ten months, we are first,
first in the league. After ten...
Not ten. The season lasts ten months.
It was seven, in February.
They fired Co Adriaanse.
They kicked him out. We were first.
Koeman comes. Co Adriaanse
did not talk to players.
He was very strange. He had
rules like we were in the army.
You couldn't feel football,
there was too much military discipline.
We were all kids and talented.
The best talents in one team.
So we need to learn something,
grow, we have potential to be wow.
But it's all school. OK.
You also need some dialogue.
Like I said before,
you have to talk to players.
I am here now, not in Sweden.
I don't have mom, dad, sister, brother.
I have no one, I am alone.
-You are everything to me.
I have no one to talk to.
The coach doesn't talk to me.
Ben Acker understood that.
He fired Co Adriaanse
and brought Koeman.
Everything started changing.
Koeman talks to me.
Still, I didn't play.
I wasn't... How do you say?
-Ready. -Ready for that league.
Ajax is special, because they play
in a way others don't.
Everything is programmed.
-Better to be in their school and grow.
Everyone who comes
to the school can play.
They gave me... How do you say?
-A pencil. -A pencil.
They gave me a pencil and showed me.
They put the pencil on paper and say:
This is number nine, this is number ten.
Number nine goes to the near post,
number ten goes to the far post.
Same when pressing in midfield.
When number nine presses him,
number ten goes there. Just with a pencil.
Everything is drawn.
-Everything is drawn, programmed.
That's how it is everywhere today.
I understood that, but I still didn't
play because my confidence dropped.
We played the cup final in Rotterdam.
I didn't play, but Koeman put me in.
Last 5-10 minutes, we go into stoppage
time. Back then there was golden goal.
Whoever scores in extra time
wins. I score the goal.
That's where the change comes.
I say that in football small details
change the situation.
-They make a big difference.
As a striker, if you score one
goal, the situation changes.
But if you don't score for a long
time and in many matches,
it doesn't take much to change
your rhythm. I score a goal.
The next year there was talk
that I would go play in Italy.
Ajax wasn't sure if I
was a good investment.
They wanted to get rid of me.
I stayed because Ben Acker was...
With you. -Yes. He protected me and said
I was good and they need to push me.
We'll give him more time.
The next year was much better.
Van Basten arrived. -Yes. -When I started
playing. He gave me... How do you say?
Advice. -How to play. He told me
I can help the team best
if I score goals. Everything else
is just play. As a striker.
The best way to help your team
is to score goals.
I'll go back to what I want to say.
After that I came to Juventus.
I saw Capello.
Capello has a different mentality.
Capello influenced Van Basten.
Van Basten did not learn at Ajax
that you help the team by scoring goals.
In Ajax they do not teach you this.
How do you say? -They don't teach you.
-They don't teach you that mentality.
That was Capello's work. -Capello?
-Capello taught that to Van Basten.
He no longer played, he was a coach.
Then he told me that.
Capello told me: The first thing
I will teach you is that I need
to remove the Ajax system from you.
How they play. I don't play like that.
You need to score goals, you are a striker
and I will teach you how to score goals.
For six months he put me in front
of goal, every day, to shoot.
I shot fifty times, sixty times.
When we finished training,
we would enter the tunnel to shower.
I went last with Cannavaro,
and he calls me: Ibra! I have to
go back, to shoot. To train.
The next day, I wanted to escape,
but I'd hear: "Ibra!"
And it went on like that for six months.
Then I became a goal-scoring machine.
That's why Van Basten said:
"He didn't learn that at Ajax,
he learned it from Fabio Capello."
That was the difference.
When he pointed out how I trained
with Kuman, with Co Adriaanse,
and how I scored goals…
It's important that I score goals,
but even more important that there's a link
between me, the ten, the seven,
and the eleven. -Yes, yes.
And there it was: one touch, two touches,
one touch, two touches…
And it works well for the game.
-It becomes fluid.
It's fluid, it moves fast,
and whoever can play one-touch,
it's a completely different situation.
That's what I learned back then.
The next year was even better with Kuman.
I played more, but I wasn't
considered a top prospect yet.
Then, in the third year,
everything started to take off.
I met Mino. -That's exactly
what I wanted to ask you.
He had approached me before.
At first, I was against having an agent.
I thought they were only interested
in money, not in the player.
I thought he just wanted
to make a deal for himself.
I had that image of agents.
-In general. -Yes.
When I was at Malmö,
everyone wanted me,
but I didn't give anyone
the chance to get close to me.
You didn't let them…
The contract between Malmö and
Ajax I handled without an agent.
I understand. -Who got paid more?
Malmö, not me.
I had the worst contract at Ajax.
-That messed you up a bit, right?
A lot. Totally. And when I realized
they had screwed me over,
I told myself: "I need an agent."
Mino had approached me
a year earlier, and I told him:
"When you have an offer,
then you can come."
And he sent a message through Max:
"He can go and fuck himself."
That was an arrogant response
to my arrogance. Fair enough.
And after a year, I was looking for an agent
and I asked a journalist who had helped me:
"Listen, I need an agent, but I don't
know how this world works."
He told me: "You have two options.
One is Beckham's agent,
part of the London agency IMG
or something like that,
or the other one, who in my opinion
is better for you.
He's not Mafia, but he's in that world.
And for your style, he's better."
That's how I met Mino,
who told them what I had said
a year earlier when he
first approached me.
But, so you came back.
That's a good sign.
When I first saw him, he was like
a character from The Sopranos.
Do you remember The Sopranos?
-Yes, of course.
The short guy with the big belly…
And I showed up in a Porsche,
bought a new Rolex to impress him.
And he came in a regular Nike t-shirt
and pants and said:
"Let's go eat sushi."
He ordered food for five people
just to make sure he ate enough.
I don't eat much, I was waiting
to see his reaction.
Then he presented four
different documents for four players.
The first was David Trezeguet:
27 matches, 20 goals.
Bobo Vieri: 23 matches, 20 goals.
Then Inzaghi, and all
the top strikers in Italy.
Italy at that time was…
-Serie A was number one. -Top.
Then he pulled out my document:
Ibra, 27 matches, 3 goals.
Then he asked me, "Who would
buy you with these numbers?"
I quickly came back and said:
"If I had numbers like these others,
I wouldn't need an agent.
Even my mom could sell me.
I need an agent because of
these numbers." He laughed and said:
"You're right. You need a miracle."
On the way home, he told me:
"Don't think I'm impressed
by your car or your watch.
That tells me nothing. These
numbers tell me everything."
When I got home,
four hours later, I called him
and said I wanted to start working together,
and he told me to take my time.
"Take a day or two," he said.
He already knew I had made up my mind,
but he was provoking me by saying that.
I told him I didn't need to think because
I knew what I wanted: to start immediately.
"From now on, everything will be
your problem, not mine."
When he started training me,
he took everything I had.
He took my Porsche
and drove it to his house.
He also took all my watches.
He gave me a Fiat Stilo,
which was popular at the time.
He told me that from now on,
I should only walk around in a tracksuit.
Whoever comes from geto, you have
only the tracksuit and nothing else.
And that was fine with me,
but I didn't like that he took my Porsche.
Where I come from Rosengård Malmö,
if you drive a nice car,
it's proof that you've made it.
-It's a measure of success.
He humiliated me as
if I hadn't achieved anything.
But it was okay, I had respect
and I didn't say anything.
He told me: "Now you're going to
train double because of what you did."
Everything you've done so far is zero.
Zero! Now you'll start training.
I want you to suffer.
After every training session,
I want you to be in a position
where you can't breathe.
To break boundaries? -Yes.
-And he took everything from me.
He said:"You'll come
to my mother's place."
He lived 25 minutes from Amsterdam,
in Haarlem. Maxwell was already there.
Maxwell and I were together a lot.
You'll come to my mother's place
and she'll give you something to eat.
I lived alone and went to IKEA
for meatballs and… Mashed...
Mashed potatoes, yeah.
I ate there, because it was
close to the stadium.
I didn't know how to cook at home.
When I met Mino, I ate there.
That's where we trained, and after
three months he sold me to Juventus.
Do you know what's strange about you?
What surprises me is that people…
And I follow football all the time…
People think you have an ego and you do,
you're confident and ego-driven.
People get the impression
that you're the type of guy
who says "my way or high way."
Usually people like that surround
themselves with "yes, sir" types.
But you chose Mino,
who wouldn't say "yes, sir" to you,
but instead told you:
"No Porsches and no watches."
You look for someone who will
challenge you? -Yes, exactly.
Someone who will fight you.
Someone who says "yes, yes, yes"
is worthless. You have to fight me.
That's how you earn my respect
and my loyalty. -Loyalty.
I'll be with you forever.
That's why I say, I have barriers,
but once you earn my respect…
Then it's bingo.
Mino and I did big things,
a big transfer.
We worked together for over
20 years without a contract.
Without a contract? -Yes.
He told me: "The moment
one of us loses trust in the other,
we'll end the cooperation."
-Do you miss him?
Once I got angry at him
and we fought a lot.
There were no hugs,
just a lot of arguments.
For a match at Ajax, he called
me after I scored two goals.
Thought I was the best.
He said: "You were the worst today.
If you hit one more time…"
The advertising board, yeah.
"I'll make sure you never
play football again.
That wasn't okay. You were
the worst player on the pitch.
The coach should have substituted
you in the first half, not the second."
He attacked me. And I told him: "Listen,
you don't work for me anymore!"
He said: "If you fire me,
you have to hire me!
Did you understand me?" -I did.
That's how he got on my nerves,
but he knew what he was doing.
None of it was personal, he was just
motivating and challenging me.
To raise me to a higher level…
Like I said, a coach has to get
into a player's head and train him there.
That's it. -Knowing the details.
He got into my head and knew
everything. He knew exactly what to do.
Do you miss him? -A lot.
-Even today? -A lot.
He was my best friend. I can't say father,
because Šefik is my father.
He was like family to me.
He knew all my… -Secrets.
-He knew my entire life.
When I met Helena, my wife,
he told me: "She will be your wife."
From the very first day…
He was everything to me.
I wish he were still with me
because of Maximillian and Vincent.
To protect them? -Yes.
I know what football is like.
He was a complete package
in the world he worked in.
He sold me to Milan the first time.
The next day, I was supposed to do
a presentation at the stadium,
…80,000 people. At halftime,
I was supposed to enter the match.
He wasn't there.
The next day, he went with another
one of his players, a 15-year-old,
to look for an apartment for him.
That's the kind of person he was.
He didn't seek glamour or fame.
He worked for the player.
"My player is my child.
I work for the player."
That's why he argued with clubs.
He said: "I don't work for the club.
I work for the player.
The player is my asset, not the club.
You have to pay if you want my player.
If you don't want him, no problem.
I don't work for the club."
That's why everyone was against him,
but he gave everything for his players.
That's how he was.
He died very young.
Of course, with some players
he was closer than with others.
That's natural. He spent
a lot of time with me.
And Maxwell was his too, like me.
He was with us more than with his own
two sons. -Yes. That's how it was.
And it all passed too quickly.
Far too quickly.
Alright, he took you to Juve.
That was a big step.
You yourself said that at that
time Serie A...
And Juventus is one of
the biggest clubs in Europe.
And anyway, The Old Lady,
Vecchia Signora... -Yes.
The club is organized
a bit like the army, right?
It was a bit, scary.
-A bit scary.
At Ajax, I was considered
a talented player.
Talented and with the potential
for... -Yes, you were talented.
After playing in Ajax,
I moved to Juventus.
When I entered the locker room...
-You entered the locker room.
I saw players like Trezeguet,
Cannavaro, Thuram... -Del Piero.
...Del Piero, Buffon, Emerson, Nedved.
I said to myself,
this is not possible.
Just a week earlier, when I was
at Ajax with my friends,
playing PlayStation there were
names I saw in the lockeroom.
For me, all of it felt
like science fiction.
I thought... -Like you were dreaming.
-Is everything I’m seeing real? -Yes.
Am I maybe dreaming?
-It felt like a dream.
When I came the next day,
I saw the same players.
Then I knew everything was real.
And I became part of that team.
If you remember, I told you earlier
that I have confidence.
When I step on the pitch,
I feel alive.
I become someone else,
I don't look like this, like I do now.
If we played football,
you would understand.
Either you will hate me
or you will love me.
Either I lift you up,
or you’ll have to…
There were many players
who cried because of me.
Because when I start applying
pressure during the game...
Yes, I know what you mean.
-Then football is no longer a game for me.
Players like Rebić and others
who played with me can confirm that.
While I'm on the pitch,
I'm not screwing around.
If we train for just one hour,
then we really train for one hour.
After that hour is over,
we can joke around and socialize.
But when we train, we really train.
That's why, when I'm in training...
Many players wonder why
Zlatan plays so aggressively.
I go into duels, I dribble, I score goals.
I remember once when Thuram...
You know, in older versions
of boots there were six... -Studs.
But six. -Yes, there were six.
-Today it's a mix. -That's right.
And those... I watched Thuram
training in boots like that.
Normally, you only use
those boots in matches.
In training, you use boots
with rubber studs. -That’s right.
When I saw him training in those,
I thought, what is this?
His first duel in training
was with Del Piero.
And at that time, Del Piero had
a beard and adidas boots. -That's right.
And now I’m seeing all of this in training.
At one moment, when Del Piero
controlled the ball with his chest,
Thuram hit him from behind.
So hard that he fell face-first
to the ground, and when he got up,
he had grass in his mouth.
Then I thought, if Thuram
did this to Del Piero,
then he’s going to break my legs.
After that, I decided that in every
duel I had to go in aggressively.
Of course, many players
were angry because of that.
Because some of them
were older than me.
And the name Ibrahimović at that time
didn’t mean much in world of football.
Still, I went hard into the duels.
I had a lot of adrenaline, I ran a lot.
But this time I didn't have
the same problem as at Ajax.
At Juventus, I was... -Ready.
I was ready in a different way.
Mentally. I was...
It's like when you take
a strong first hit,
and every next one
doesn’t seem as strong.
You already have experience with it.
I had experience from Ajax.
-Yes, you had experience.
I was more... -Ready for it.
I was truly ready and I told myself
that I wouldn’t wait for anyone anymore.
I just want to play...
And in the end, only one can stay.
Either me, or Del Piero, or Trezeguet.
I want to play and I know
that I'm better than both of them.
My coach was Capello,
and he wasn't...
He was an old-school coach.
He stuck to the rules.
When I arrived for training
on the first day, there was no…
At that time, Juventus had
only two training pitches.
Even today, the situation
is not much better.
Today it looks much more modern.
They’ve built modern training grounds.
In my time, there were only two pitches
with very little grass. -I understand.
But the executives didn’t worry about that.
I’ll tell you another story about Moggi.
Moggi was the director
at that time. -Yes.
When I arrived at training
on the first day, it was breakfast time.
Capello was sitting at the table,
reading La Gazzetta dello Sport.
Those newspapers are pink.
-Yes, they’re pink.
I thought that was cool.
Before that, I had only seen them
on TV and on YouTube.
I had never even heard of that newspaper.
But the color was really cool.
He was sitting at the table,
and earlier I had already asked
people at the club how
you address the coach here.
They told me to say, "mister."
When I got close to him,
I said, "Buongiorno, mister."
But he kept on reading the newspaper.
After ten minutes passed,
I started wondering if
maybe I had said something wrong.
The situation wasn’t clear to me.
Or maybe he hadn’t heard or seen me.
After ten minutes, he put the newspaper
down and left the room. I thought
I had done something wrong.
I went into the locker room
and asked the guys
if the coach
had a problem with me, or...
I even wondered if the issue was my
English, because I wasn't so go at it...
They told me not to worry,
that everything was fine.
After three months,
I got to know Capello better
and asked him how he works
with a group of players like that,
how he earns their respect, because
the squad was full of personalities...
Nedved... -Strong characters, yes.
-Everyone was full of confidence,
everyone thought they were the best
in the world, and in truth, they were.
He then told me, "I don't
ask for respect. I take it."
That's the difference.
I don't ask for respect, I take it.
What he did to me on
the very first day was exactly that:
he took my respect by
not answering me. -Yes, yes.
He put me in my place immediately.
-Straight away...
Immediately, on the first day.
He was the one who wanted
me to come to Juventus,
he was the one who
brought me there to play.
On my first day, I arrived and said,
"Buongiorno, mister,"
and with that single moment alone
he put me exactly where I needed to be.
Bravo, yes... -Small details
that make all the difference.
But he really was special.
He picked me up, and then...
-Brought you back down.
Yes, brought me back down. When it came
to everything connected to Van Basten,
he told me that the first thing
he would do with me
was to erase the Ajax systems from me
and that here I had to score goals.
He said, "If you want to help the team,
here you must score goals.
You do everything well
until you reach the goal,
but in front of the goal, nothing happens.
We're going to change that now."
He said: "Outside the box,
everything is fine,
but once you enter the box,
you have to be aggressive."
Then he put on a tape. -A tape?
-A tape with Van Basten's goals.
He said, "You are Van Basten,"
or somewhat similar... -Similar...
"Yes, you are similar to Van Basten
in the way you move on the pitch."
I said to him, "All right."
He played the tape,
and I watched only Van Basten's goals,
nothing but goals, only highlights.
I watched how he turned,
how he scored with his head,
how he attacked aggressively,
how he fought. It lasted 20 minutes.
I was alone in that room,
because the training ground
was old school back then.
We only had tapes, unlike today where
you have all the modern technology.
At that time, none of that existed.
For 20 minutes I was watching that,
and I heard nothing else.
I was just watching, and I was afraid
that if I left, something would happen.
I've always had that way of thinking.
25 minutes pass by, 30 minutes
pass by and I say to myself:
"Alright, I understand it.
What more does he want from me?"
I left the room and looked around
to see whether Capello was there.
I was alone at the training ground;
everyone else had already gone home.
He had left me there
to study those movements
while everyone else
had already gone home.
I thought it wasn't normal, I kept
asking myself what he was doing to me...
I was getting irritated
and that was precisely what he wanted.
He wanted you to be entirely focused.
-Exactly. He wanted me to change.
For six months, he assigned his
assistant to work with me
in front of the goal every single day.
Young players would come in,
like Giovinco and De Sciglio,
who later played for Juventus.
-They were Primavera players.
They would pass me balls, and I would
score goals - 50, 60, 70 shots...
I kept shooting and scoring,
and that assistant kept irritating me.
Every single time I missed, he would
tell me I would never score a goal.
He was an older man,
very well known in Italy,
someone who had worked with Capello,
with Van Basten and others.
And every time I missed,
he would say the same thing.
It annoyed me, but that's something I've
carried inside me since much earlier:
when someone attacks me,
it fuels me to play even better.
I understand, that's clear to me.
He motivated you.
Yes. He kept telling me: "You're like
Van Basten, but you don't move like him.
You have a better technique than Van
Basten, but you have to score goals.
You need to move..." -Timing...
-To move like Van Basten inside the box.
And that movement was always
forward, forward, forward...
And in the end, in a way,
he created a monster.
Because today,
when I step onto the pitch,
there is only one thing
in my head - I go.
If you're in front of me, you and the
ball are both going into the goal.
I understand... -And the goalkeeper with
you as well... That's how he created me.
He made you that way. -Yes, he created
me like that. He created a monster.
After that, I just kept pushing forward.
And then I told Moggi what
I had wanted to mention earlier...
While we were showering, me, Trezeguet,
Nedved, Camoranesi and the others,
the water wasn't draining
from the floor.
I said: "What is this?
This isn't normal, we're Juventus."
I had a good relationship with Moggi.
I told him: "Listen, we were showering
and the water wasn't draining.
What's up with that?
That's not at the Juventus level."
He replied: "You're not here
to have it good. You're here to win."
You didn't come here to enjoy yourself,
but... -... to win. -Exactly.
I understood everything immediately.
-You feel the pressure straight away.
Exactly. That's why I say
that when you're at Juventus,
you adopt a different mentality.
You think only about winning.
That is the Juventus culture.
Anyone who has been through Juventus
speaks differently compared to those
who played for Milan or Inter.
I understand, and we'll definitely
talk more about that.
It's a different mentality.
He told me clearly: "You're not here to
enjoy yourself. You're here to win."
He put me in my place immediately.
Capello taught me respect,
and Moggi instilled
the Juventus mentality in me.
Capello transformed me in terms of what
matters on the pitch - scoring goals.
And then there's another player
you mentioned.
You have Moggi, Capello,
you also point out Vieira. -Vieira.
He arrived in the second year.
Did he have that same mentality?
-He arrived in the second year.
Back then he won the World Cup,
he played for Arsenal.
Then he joined us. Back then,
big players didn't change clubs often.
They stayed for a long time. He had already
been at Arsenal for 9-10 years. -Surely.
He arrived as a big name.
He was different from the others.
The others, it's not that
they attacked me, but...
They looked at me like a kid.
You have time, you need to learn,
but I was persistent anyway.
Then Vieira arrived. He pushed me.
Differently than the others. He told me I
could do much better than what I was doing.
What you're doing is 10%, it's not enough.
You need to work more. He provoked me.
He started attacking me on the pitch.
When I would press a player,
he would talk back and challenge me.
-Yes. -The respect grew like this.
Two heads who want to win, but not
only in the game, but at training too.
He "lifted" me even more. When someone
asks who is the best player I played with,
I always mention him. I played with
Messi, Ronaldinho and others.
But, who made me better?
-Who made you better.
Who pushed you... Him, right?
-The others were names.
They didn't make me better,
he did. That's why I always say
that Vieira was the player who pushed me.
The way I play... -Like a mindset.
Not only in games, but at training too.
You mentioned that Mido was at Ajax,
then Trezeguet, Del Piero.
Then Crespo, Adriano, then Messi,
Henry. Cavani, Rooney, is that right?
Is it possible to develop a friendship
between two players
or is it more competition? Strikers are
sensitive. -Competition will always exist.
Whoever says there isn't,
that we're friends. Competition.
One has a bigger ego than the other.
You have your character.
Then there is the style of your play.
-Yes. -If we talk about Cavani.
He is a player who needs goals.
If he doesn't score, he doesn't feel good.
I... I loved to move on the pitch,
to play and score goals.
Also to assist. It was
difficult for him in Paris.
I was the center forward, number nine,
and they put him at position eleven.
I told him, because I didn't have
an ego to be the best.
I'll show you how I play.
I tell him to move into the middle.
I'll give you space and I'll turn around.
When I talk to young kids,
I ask them when they get in front
of the keeper, just the two of you.
You have the ball in front of the keeper.
Do you score or do you assist?
What will you do? That way I immediately
find out what kind of player they are.
If he tells me he will score the goal.
That's not the right answer.
If he tells me he'll assist,
that's a player. -Šuker would score.
Then he's not a player for me.
For me, the one who assists is better
to the one who scores,
and that makes this player better.
More of a team player, OK. -Yes.
Next time he's in that position,
will he pass the ball or not? -I agree.
But on the other hand, true goalscorers...
You are greater when you pass
to someone else to score.
When Zidane played, when he stepped on
the pitch, the other ten became like Zidane.
That was his quality.
He didn't do everything alone.
He did everything so everyone else
would be Zidane. -100%. -That's different.
That's why I say.
When they're in front of goal,
players who only score
for themselves are small.
A great player is one who assists
so someone else can score.
He has no ego to score
only for himself.
But you are one of the rare great
goalscorers without a big ego.
Rooney is like that, right?
But Harry Kane, Šuker...
I wanted to be complete.
Whoever only thinks of themselves...
You're like Bokšić. He was like that.
-Bokšić didn't score many goals.
He's not a goalscorer. Maybe
that's why he didn't score them.
In those days, players didn't
score many goals. -True.
Back then, if you scored 8, 9, or 10
goals, it's like 25-30 goals today.
They didn't score over 20 goals
back then. Times were different.
For me, he is a greater player when he's in
front of the goal and passes to another.
He is a greater player than
the one who just wants to score.
He's more of a team
player, of course.
Fine. Juve, you win. Two years.
-Two years. -Two titles.
You are the top scorer. -At training
it was harder than in the matches.
Training was fierce. -But the Moggi
affair happens, where he is involved.
What happened was ugly.
I said I didn't want to stay.
I didn't want to play in Serie B.
-That interests me.
I wanted to play in the Champions League,
in Serie A. I'm not a player for Serie B.
And loyalty? -What does that mean?
-Loyalty. Juve, you know?
You've been there two years,
some players left, some stayed.
Someone stayed. -Deschamps
wants you to stay, right?
He wants to build the team with you.
-A lot of players left.
They tried to... -Retain. -Retain
many players to return to Serie A.
To me and Mino, it's not about
loyalty. It's about your career.
Now there is Juventus and Ibrahimović.
What does Ibra want, what does Juve want?
I want to play at the top, to try to
play in the Champions League.
If I go there, I will lose a year
in Serie B. -Of course.
But loyalty is something
completely different.
And what actually is loyalty?
-Does it even exist in football? -No.
I thought about it like this:
"I could stay in Malmö,
with my family, in my hometown,
in my own house, with my friends."
But I didn’t. I packed my bag and
went to  another city to show who I was.
And when I’d done everything I could there,
I packed my bag again and moved on,
to grow - as a person and as a player.
But I never left a club without a reason.
In Barcelona, it was a 50–50 situation.
That was different.
The first six months, and the next six.
-Yes, I understand.
But it wasn’t about football.
It was about something else.
I wanted to challenge myself,
to play for different clubs,
to see how good I really was.
If a player stays at one club
for twenty years,
I respect that deeply.
But that’s not who I am. I wanted
to test myself in the Premier League,
La Liga, the French league,
the Italian league…
Because a career is short.
To see who I really was,
and to grow - as a player and as a man.
Because in every country,
football is played differently.
I agree, but that’s…
that’s how it is.
When it comes to loyalty,
I agree with you.
I admire players who stay
at one club their whole…
Yes. Respect to them.
But in my opinion,
loyalty should be shown like this:
while you’re at the club,
you give everything,
even if you’re injured, if you can,
even if you’re sick.
You don’t speak against the club.
But when you leave, you leave. -Yes.
The problem is that fans,
for better or worse, see it differently.
Fans will always be the same.
-They’re the most loyal. -Always.
So. You say "no" to Moggi
and you come to Inter.
A similar club in terms of character.
The players are the same type, right?
They weren't pussies.
At that time at Inter,
Moratti was the club president.
When he gives you a contract,
the rest is up to you.
The mentality wasn’t
the same as at Juventus.
Back then, I had to choose
between Inter and Milan.
I chose Inter because
they worked harder to sign me.
Inter hadn’t won
the Scudetto for 17 years.
I was thinking: between Inter and Milan,
where can I create a story if I win?
Milan had already won
the Champions League.
You wanted impact. -Yes, impact.
I saw that at Inter there had been
Baggio, Ronaldo, all the great players,
and they still hadn’t won.
I said to myself: "If I go there and win,
then it means something."
It’s on you. -That’s a bigger challenge
for me than going to Milan
and being just one of those
who had already won.
They’d already done it.
I went to Inter for three years,
and we won all three years.
So the impact was worth it. I did
something that will go down in history,
and no one can take
that away from you.
I could have played at Inter, not won
anything, and no one would remember me.
Instead, I played, I won,
and I left my mark.
You were the league’s top scorer, right?
-I was the best foreign player,
the best overall player,
and in the third year, with Mourinho,
I was also the top scorer.
-Now explain this to me…
Is it true that when you arrived at Inter,
you realized that Moratti
was actually the best president
for the players?
He gives bonuses,
but you told him he shouldn’t do that.
OK, after we won
the derby against Milan,
some players told him
that he should give us bonuses.
Because he had such a big heart,
he gave us bonuses.
Then I went to him
and asked for the opposite.
I told him, "Listen, if you want us
to keep winning, this isn’t the way.
If you give them a bonus for one match,
they’ll lose their hunger to win.
Because you’ve already fed them
after just one game." -Yes, yes.
A win against Milan
must not change anything.
When we win the trophy at the end,
then you can do whatever you want.
Give bonuses, do everything you like,
because we’ve delivered the result.
After that, do whatever you want
and everyone will be grateful.
But you don’t do it after just one match.
That’s not the way. -Bravo!
We play 38 matches a season.
In all 38, we have to stay focused
and keep that desire to win.
That hunger, yes.
-Hunger for victory.
You don’t start being grateful
after a single win.
No, no. That’s not the way.
I insisted on that,
even though the match against Milan
was different, because it was a derby.
Okay, those are special matches.
It’s a derby.
But for me, that wasn’t enough.
You have to win trophies
and enter history.
When I saw they hadn’t won for
17 years, that was a challenge for me.
If I can win here with players
who hadn’t won before,
then it means I’ve done something,
not just for myself,
but for the whole team,
for the coaches,
and for everyone working at the club.
But I was the only one
who could truly say:
we won after I arrived.
Anyone who comes after that
and wins can’t say the same.
Because it didn’t happen
just because of them,
it happened because there was already
a winning machine in place. -Exactly.
Just like at Barcelona.
I didn’t go to Barcelona
and make them win.
There was already
a winning machine there.
Exactly. It was already built.
I can’t be that egotistical and say,
"Barcelona is much better
because of me."
But it wasn’t like that. -Yeah…
-It was already like that. -But Inter was.
So, Mancini and then Mourinho comes…
-Mancini was there for two years.
And then Mourinho arrived.
-And you clicked immediately, right?
You and Mourinho? -It was…
Yes, immediately. I can say immediately.
He’s special.
He was…
He wasn’t Capello, but he was
a modern version of Capello.
Discipline like Capello’s,
that tactics, the way he spoke,
the manipulation of players, how he talked
to the newspapers at press conferences…
That was something new.
Every day, something was happening.
On his first day in Italy he says:
"I’m not an idiot!"
He says that at a press conference.
Everyone was saying: "What is this?"
So, he was already prepared
for what was going to happen.
He has his own way of finishing things
and he knows how the game
should be played.
He was a coach who manipulated
players and motivated them.
He didn't come here to invent science.
He prepared the matches.
You go into a match
and make two assists.
All players say the same thing.
You were ready to kill for him,
because that’s how he prepared
you and got into your head.
When I was on the pitch,
no one could touch me.
Now I’m flying, he came
and gave me a huge desire to win.
At that moment he was at the top.
-After Chelsea?
After Chelsea, he was The Special One.
Something was always happening.
When you take those five…
You had that luck…
which you deserved, of course.
Capello, Mourinho, Guardiola, Ancelotti,
Mancini, and there were other great ones.
They were different.
I’m not asking who was better,
but what made them specific?
They changed me to be better.
Mourinho lifted me.
The way he prepared matches,
no one did it like that.
Capello changed my mentality.
He understood what I needed to do
on the pitch to help the team.
And because of that I respect him,
because that was important to me.
Koeman gave me the chance to regain
confidence, to come back.
Guardiola had a bit…
Then something happened,
but for football, Guardiola was a maniac.
He had a system.
Football 24 hours a day.
All the time it was football,
football, football…
He breathed, slept and ate football.
Do you understand?
He had an answer for everything.
How to attack…
A solution for everything.
In Barcelona, how we played in
posession, from the back and all that...
There were teams that tried to close
us down immediately. -To press.
He says: "Ibra, no problem.
Xavi goes as a false nine,
you drop behind, into midfield,
and you play in that position.
The ball comes from the goalkeeper there…
and we start playing."
He had a solution for everything.
-For everything.
So as a coach, in terms
of information, he was top.
Despite the situation between us,
he was top. -That’s something else.
I have to say he was top, the best coach.
And he changed football.
Everything is a product of him.
-It’s his consequence.
But not everyone is him,
that’s the problem.
He said: "When we lose the ball, you
have three to five seconds to recover,
and after five seconds, we come back."
I’d never heard any coach
say something like that.
Not Mourinho, not Capello, not Koeman,
no one… Not even Ancelotti.
Ancelotti is a manager.
Old school, but he’s good. -Warm?
Too warm, like a father,
a friend, everything.
No one had a problem with him.
If you didn’t play, you still
didn’t have a problem.
They say he’s the best.
-Satisfied? -Yes.
Everyone was satisfied because
there were no problems.
He had that feeling of wanting
to be good with everyone.
I ask him: "How do you do it?"
We had this situation… -Right wing.
Two players played one match.
Then the next match, half and half.
"How do you control that? They should
be grateful  and move forward."
"It’s easy, Ibra."
-So what do you tell them?"
"To one player I say
he’s the best in the team,
then I go to the other and say
the same thing." -The same?
That’s how he treated them.
I said: "OK."
Then another situation... we’re out,
in a restaurant, it’s ten at night.
We’re there, eating and drinking beer,
seven or eight of us players.
Someone says: "Call Carlo
to come." Carlo Ancelotti...
You call him and in 20 minutes
he’s with us, drinking… -Beer.
After 45 minutes he says:
"You carry on, I’m going home."
That’s how he was. -Huge.
He was that good.
At one training session I touch him like
this and call him: "Mister, mister…"
He looks at me and says: "Who told
you, you can touch me like that?"
I was shocked. I say: "Carlo?"
He says: "Relax." I’m joking.
I tell him: "Carlo, don’t…" Scare me.
He shock me, because that’s not him.
That’s how good he was. -Incredible.
A good man. That’s why I think he
had success… -At Real Madrid, yes.
For Real Madrid, you don’t need science.
You need someone who knows
how to motivate everyone properly.